.TH XTRLOCK 1
.SH NAME
xtrlock \- Lock X display until password supplied, leaving windows visible
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B A modified version of xtrlock with more functions implemented. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xtrlock
locks the X server till the user enters their password at the keyboard.

While
.B xtrlock
is running, the mouse and keyboard are grabbed.  Output displayed by X programs, and windows put up
by new X clients, continue to be visible, and any new output is
displayed normally.

The mouse and keyboard are returned when the user types their
password, followed by Enter or Newline.  If an incorrect password is
entered the bell is sounded.  Pressing Backspace or Delete erases one
character of a password partially typed; pressing Escape or Clear
clears anything that has been entered.

If too many attempts are made in too short a time further keystrokes
generate bells and are otherwise ignored until a timeout has expired.

The X server screen saver continues to operate normally; if it comes
into operation the display may be restored by the usual means of
touching a key (Shift, for example) or the mouse.
.SH OPTIONS, X RESOURCES, CONFIGURATION
To receive a desktop notification on lock and unlock. The notification 
usually appears at the right up corner of the screen and last one 
second as default, this may vary according to the notification server 
used. The image displayed on the notification is located at the /usr/share/xtrlock
by default. Feel free to change the image by replacing the lock.png or 
unlock.png with the replacement. 
    -n --notify                                  send message notification on
None.
.SH BUGS
Additional input devices other than the keyboard and mouse are not
disabled.

The timeouts cannot be modifed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X "(1), Xlib Documentation."
.SH AUTHOR
Ian Jackson <ian@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 by Ian Jackson.

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
documentation is granted under the terms of the GNU General Public
Licence, version 2 or later, as published by the Free Software
Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

This program now allows user to use their own password instead of 
the default user password, which often is also used for other things 
such as root access via sudo(for many desktop users, I know that!) 
that one may not want to reveal. Using another password and share it 
with your friend could solved this. 

To use this program with keyboard shortcuts, try tools like xbindkeys.
However, to encrypt the password in the config files of the binding
tools, one may want to use the -c flag to encrypt the password string
and pass the encrypted string with the -e flag.

[Warning]:Since the first two characters of the password will be used
as salt and will appear as they are even after encryption, using any
custom password shorter than two characters is means the hash on the 
password is completely useless thus make it extremely vulnerable and 
depreciated. 

To lock and cover the screen completely as what a normal screen lock 
does instead of exposing the screen, pass the -b flag.

Also, in order to notify the user that the screen has been successfully 
locked, the screen will be blinked (which can be configured with -d 
option) on successful locks under normal mode. While the -b flag is passed,
the screen will only be covered on successful locks.
[If the worse comes to the worst, use <Ctrl>+<Alt>+<F2> and login to kill
this program...]
 
Usage: 
    -h                      show this help
    -p [password_string]    use custom non-encrypted password
    -e [password_hash]      use encrypted custom password with salt of itself
    -c [password_string]    calculate the password string that can be used with the "-c" option
    -b                      lock with a blank screen
    -d [delay]              milliseconds the screen blinks on successful locks(0 for no-delay & 100000 for 0.1 s), default = 0.1s
